Performance testing in shallow waters news article (#114)
subnero1/subnero1.github.io: _posts/2020-05-15-Performance-testing-in-shallow-waters.md

---
layout: post
title: Performance testing in shallow waters
banner : images/banner-pulse-articles5.jpg
date:  2020-05-15
categories:
- wnc
- media
thumbnail: images/pulse-thumbnail-deployment.jpg
---

Acoustic wireless communications have always been very challenging in shallow coastal waters as compared to the deep ocean. This is due to several factors such as multi-path, Doppler due to strong currents, varying bathymetry, etc. It gets even more challenging when you have to share the propagation channel with several marine vessels constantly injecting bubbles into the communication channel.

> This is why, we at Subnero, constantly test our underwater acoustic modems at these challenging conditions, to push the limits of what is possible.

Reviewer: Should be "in" these challenging conditions instead of "at".

> During February 2020, we conducted a set of experiments at the straits of Singapore, to test the communication range between two of our modems. The goal of the test was to establish a maximum communication range at a given data rate with a more than 70% packet success ratio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During February 2020, we conducted a set of experiments at the [Singapore Strait](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore_Strait), to test the communication range between two of our modems in shallow waters. The goal of the test was to establish a maximum communication range at a given data rate with a more than 70% packet success ratio.
```

> During February 2020, we conducted a set of experiments at the [Singapore Strait](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore_Strait), to test the communication range between two of our modems in shallow waters. The goal of the test was to establish a maximum communication range at a given data rate with more than 70% packet success ratio.

Reviewer 3: Do we really want to say 70%? Usually people don't. Might send a negative vibe.

> During February 2020, we conducted a set of experiments at the [Singapore Strait](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore_Strait), to test the communication range between two of our modems in shallow waters. The goal of the test was to establish a maximum communication range at a given data rate with a more than 70% packet success ratio.

Reviewer: "a more than 70%": delete "a"

> During February 2020, we conducted a set of experiments at the [Singapore Strait](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore_Strait), to test the communication range between two of our modems in shallow waters. The goal of the test was to establish a maximum communication range at a given data rate with a more than 70% packet success ratio.

Reviewer: I think that it should be "in" the Singapore Strait instead of "at" the Singapore Strait, however, I can't find anything to concur or disagree with that.

Author: For now, I am leaving it with `at`.

![Test setup]({{site.baseurl}}/images/test-setup.jpg){: .center-image  }

> We are pleased to announce that the Subnero [M25M series platinum edition modems](https://subnero.com/products/platinum.html) have achieved over 2 km of communication range while configured at a data rate of 1.3 kbps (DATA channel) with a packet success ratio o 70% or more. The average depth of the communication channel was 15m. Both the transmitting and receiving modems were deployed at the mid-water column. However, due to very strong currents, the modems were at an angle of 45 deg at times. The strong currents also caused the constant motion of the deployment platform and hence a Doppler of up to 4 knots was recorded. This also shows the Doppler resilience of the Subnero modems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are pleased to announce that the Subnero [M25M series platinum edition modems](https://subnero.com/products/platinum.html) have achieved over 2 km of communication range while configured at a data rate of 1.3 kbps (DATA channel) with a packet success ratio o 70% or more. The average depth of the communication channel was 15m. Both the transmitting and receiving modems were deployed at the mid-water column. However, due to very strong currents, the modems were at an angle of 45° at times. The strong currents also caused the constant motion of the deployment platform and hence a Doppler of up to 4 knots was recorded. This also shows the Doppler resilience of the Subnero modems.
```

> We are pleased to announce that the Subnero [M25M series platinum edition modems](https://subnero.com/products/platinum.html) have achieved over 2 km of communication range while configured at a data rate of 1.3 kbps (DATA channel) with a packet success ratio of 70% or more. The average depth of the communication channel was 15m. Both the transmitting and receiving modems were deployed at the mid-water column. However, due to very strong currents, the modems were at an angle of 45° at times. The strong currents also caused the constant motion of the deployment platform and hence a Doppler of up to 4 knots was recorded. This also shows the Doppler resilience of the Subnero modems.

Reviewer 3: While this may be great, most readers will read this in context of other reported results of 10s of kbps at 10s of km, without knowing the Singapore straits as a challenging channel. I'm not sure if we'll be doing ourselves a disservice with a brief like this. For discussion.

Also, why 45 deg is a problem isn't clear to me, as a reader. The modems are omnidirectional, are they not?

Inconsistent usage of spaces with units: spaces before "km" and "kbps", but "m" without the space.

> We are pleased to announce that the Subnero [M25M series platinum edition modems](https://subnero.com/products/platinum.html) have achieved over 2 km of communication range while configured at a data rate of 1.3 kbps (DATA channel) with a packet success ratio o 70% or more. The average depth of the communication channel was 15m. Both the transmitting and receiving modems were deployed at the mid-water column. However, due to very strong currents, the modems were at an angle of 45° at times. The strong currents also caused the constant motion of the deployment platform and hence a Doppler of up to 4 knots was recorded. This also shows the Doppler resilience of the Subnero modems.

Reviewer: "success ratio o 70%" should be "success ratio **of** 70%"

![Strong current displacing the modems]({{site.baseurl}}/images/deployment.png){: .center-image  }

> The modems used their OFDM modulation (DATA channel) with a 1/6th rate LDPC setting as the forward error correction. Over 5000 packets were transmitted in both directions and the results were tabulated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The modems used their OFDM modulation ([DATA channel](https://unetstack.net/handbook/unet-handbook_physical_service.html#_control_and_data_channels)) with a 1/6th rate LDPC setting as the forward error correction. After transmitting and receiving 5000 packets were transmitted in both directions we were able to conclude a packet success ratio great than 70%.
```

> The modems used their OFDM modulation ([DATA channel](https://unetstack.net/handbook/unet-handbook_physical_service.html#_control_and_data_channels)) with a 1/6th rate LDPC setting as the forward error correction. After transmitting and receiving 5000 packets were transmitted in both directions we were able to conclude a packet success ratio great than 70%.

Reviewer: Should we add a "," after "receiving"?
Should "5000" be "5,000"?

> The modems used their OFDM modulation ([DATA channel](https://unetstack.net/handbook/unet-handbook_physical_service.html#_control_and_data_channels)) with a 1/6th rate LDPC setting as the forward error correction. After transmitting and receiving 5,000 packets were transmitted in both directions we were able to conclude a packet success ratio great than 70%.

Reviewer: "After transmitting and receiving 5,000 packets were transmitted in both directions we were able to conclude a packet success ratio great than 70%"
The sentence doesn't make sense: the 5,000 packets were transmitted and received, then transmitted in both directions as well?
Should we say: "After transmitting and receiving 5,000 packets, we were able to conclude a packet success ration **greater** than 70%" or "After 5,000 packets were transmitted in both directions, we were able to conclude a packet success ratio **greater** than 70%" ?
